# SAINT2

## 0. Foreword

SAINT2 is a fragment-based *de novo* protein structure prediction software. It is based on the notion that some proteins fold as they are being synthesised, which is known as the cotranslational protein folding hypothesis.

In this document, you will find information about installing and running SAINT2.

## 1. Installation

To install SAINT2, run:

```sh
 sh install_saint2 
```

## 2. Configuration

Make sure to export the SAINT2 environment variable, which can be done with the command:

```sh
export SAINT2=/path/to/SAINT2/
```

## 3. Running SAINT2

SAINT2 requires three files to generate models:

1. **foo.fasta.txt**: this is a fasta file containing your target sequence.

2. **foo.flib**: this is a fragment library file in the [Flib format](https://github.com/sauloho/Flib).  

3. **foo.con**: this is a contact file in a minimalistic formatting style. For each predicted contact, this file expects a line in the form of *i j score*, where *i* and *j* are the residues in contact and *score* is the score of the prediction.

When available, a fourth file **foo.pdb** can be provided to evaluate the quality of the models produced by each mode of SAINT2.

Two example files are provided in the folder *examples*.

To run SAINT2 for protein 1AIU, change to the directory $SAINT2/examples/1AIU and run:


```sh
$SAINT2/scripts/run_saint2.sh 1AIU
```

Alternatively, if you do not want to save results in the same directory as your data, you can pass the folder containing the required inpuy files as an argument:

```sh
$SAINT2/scripts/run_saint2.sh 1AIU $SAINT2/examples/1AIU
```

If only a single argument is provided, SAINT2 assumes that the required input files are in the current directory.

## 4. Description of output

The example above should generate three directories. Each directory will contain the decoys generated by the different modes of SAINT2:

* SAINT2 Cotranslational: performs structure prediction in a sequential fashion, starting with a short peptide representing the N-terminus. After a certain number of moves is performed, SAINT2 Cotranslational grows the existing peptide by one residue, mimicking the process of translation/extrusion. Directories containing the decoys for this mode will be named FOO_c_n*, where FOO is the id of your target. This is our method of choice for model generation.

* SAINT2 Reverse: performs structure prediction in a sequential fashion, starting with a short peptide representing the C-terminus and growing this peptide on a reverse biological sense. Directories containing the decoys for this mode will be named FOO_c_n*rev, where FOO is the id of your target.

* SAINT2 *In vitro*: performs structure prediction in a traditional fashion, with a fully elongated protein chain. This process is akin to protein refolding after denaturation *in vitro*. Directories containing the decoys for this mode will be named FOO_i*, where FOO is the id of your target.

In each directory, you should expect to find PDB files containing the coordinates of the models produced by each mode of SAINT2. The files *err_\** contain an error log if SAINT2 failed to produce a model.

If a PDB file of your target was provided, the scores obtained by each mode of SAINT2 will be depicted in the text files *FOO.scores\**.


## 5.TROUBLESHOOTING

Contact sauloho@gmail.com for any problems you may experience using Flib.

